docs: Add policy best practices section (#1361)
cerbos/cerbos: docs/modules/policies/pages/best_practices.adoc

  - actions:
      - "*"
    effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
    roles:
      - SR_MANAGER
      - CFO
----

This might apply if your scenario doesn't strictly fall into one of the previous two sections; individually, or at all.

=== Blanket allow, granular deny

Finally, we can opt to explicitly state which actions a user *cannot* do:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
# Principals in the `JR_MANAGER` role can perform all actions, other than `edit` and `save`
  - actions:
      - "*"
    effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
    roles:
      - "JR_MANAGER"

  - actions:
      - "edit"
      - "save"
    effect: EFFECT_DENY
    roles:
      - "JR_MANAGER"
----

This would suit scenarios where a principal can perform _nearly_ every action, and you want to explicitly list disallowed actions.

== Map of relations

Avoiding complex query planner outputs with sub-expressions:

.Before
[source,yaml,linenums]
----
apiVersion: api.cerbos.dev/v1
resourcePolicy:
  resource: example_resource
  version: default
  rules:
    - actions:
        - "*"
      effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
      roles:
        - USER
      condition:
        match:
          expr: P.attr.relations[R.id] == "owner"
----

> Notice how, in the above match condition, we reference both the Principal and the Resource within a single struct indexing expression: `P.attr.relations[R.id]`. Syntactically (and logically), this is correct, but in some scenarios (namely, when producing query plans via the `PlanResources` API) can produce overly complex results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice how, in the above match condition, we reference both the Principal and the Resource within a single struct indexing expression: `P.attr.relations[R.id]`. This is correct both syntactically and logically. However, when using the `PlanResources` API to produce a query plan, the generated plan can sometimes be quite complicated due to how these expressions are represented internally.

```

> To improve this, we can separate these parts into sub-expressions and pre evaluate the respective result sets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve this, we can apply a little bit of mechanical-sympathy and rewrite the expression in a way where the known values (principal attributes) are separated from unknown values (resource attributes) as follows:
```

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Best Practices and Recipes

A collection of tips and code snippets designed to help you write cleaner, more optimised Cerbos policies.

== Modelling policies

> The way you model your policies is up you - you can achieve the same logical outcome in numerous ways. That said, some patterns will lend themselves more naturally to certain scenarios.

Reviewer: Just trying to render an emdash

```suggestion
The way you model your policies is up you -- you can achieve the same logical outcome in numerous ways. That said, some patterns will lend themselves more naturally to certain scenarios.
```

Consider this business model:

[%noheader,cols="2h,5*^"]
|===
^e|Actions
5+e|Roles
|
h|IT_ADMIN
h|JR_MANAGER
h|SR_MANAGER
h|USER
h|CFO
|run    |         |x          |x          |     |x
|view   |x        |x          |x          |x    |x
|edit   |         |           |x          |     |x
|save   |         |           |x          |     |x
|share  |         |x          |x          |     |x
|===

Representing this as a resource policy could be achieved in a variety of ways. Let's take a look at each:

=== Action-led

Here, we focus on an action, and list all the roles that can perform that action:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
# Principals in the following three roles can perform the `run` action
  - actions:
      - "run"
    effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
    roles:
      - JR_MANAGER
      - SR_MANAGER
      - CFO

# All principals can perform the `view` action
  - actions:
      - "view"
    effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
    roles:
      - ["*"]
----

This approach might be suitable if any of the following apply to your system:

> * Your roles are "similar" in what they can do, e.g. `JR_MANAGER` and `SR_MANAGER`; it's likely that `JR_MANAGER` will have a subset of the permissions of `SR_MANAGER`. There will of course be duplication in either direction, but it's often easier to reason about this from an action perspective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your roles are "similar" in what they can do like `JR_MANAGER` and `SR_MANAGER`; it's likely that `JR_MANAGER` will have a subset of the permissions of `SR_MANAGER`. There will of course be duplication in either direction, but it's often easier to reason about this from an action perspective.
```

> * You have "high-risk" actions - you want to be able to tell at a glance which roles have access to a particular action. The act of explicitly listing roles per action makes it much more difficult to accidentally give unwanted permissions to the wrong user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have "high-risk" actions -- you want to be able to tell at a glance which roles have access to a particular action. The act of explicitly listing roles per action makes it much more difficult to accidentally give unwanted permissions to the wrong user.
```

* You have a relatively high number of roles to a low number of actions.

=== Role-led

Alternatively, we can focus on a role, and list all the actions the role can perform:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
# These three actions can be performed by principals in the `JR_MANAGER` role
  - actions:
      - "run"
      - "view"
      - "share"
    effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
    roles:
      - JR_MANAGER
----

You might opt for a role-led approach if:

> * You have distinct roles, e.g. it's rare for your roles to share common actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have distinct roles where it's rare for your roles to share common actions.
```

=== Static Policies / Dynamic Context

> This is the "idiomatic" way of solving this use-case in Cerbos. In the vast majority of cases, it is possible to have the policies statically defined and to pass in dynamic context as attributes of a principal. This dynamic context can be any arbitrary data, e.g. the principal's location, age, or perhaps which roles it has in a specific context - e.g. a tenant or project. This contextual data would be retrieved at request time, from your application's chosen user/profile service or data store. Let's look at an example.

Reviewer: A lot of style guides recommend avoiding Latin abbreviations.

```suggestion
This is the _idiomatic_ way of solving this use-case in Cerbos. In the vast majority of cases, it is possible to have the policies statically defined and to pass in dynamic context as attributes of a principal. This dynamic context can be any arbitrary data such as the principal's location, age, or specific roles it has within the context of an organizational unit (a department, a tenant or a project, for example). This contextual data would be retrieved at request time from another service or a data store. Let's look at an example.
```

include::example$example.rb[]
----
--
Rust::
+
--
[source,rust,linenums]
----
include::example$example.rs[]
----
--
====

You can find a full (and extended) example of the above in our https://play.cerbos.dev/p/IJxlK6131f642ND65F1EhPmiT18Ap1A5[SaaS Workspace Policy playground example].

=== Dynamic Policies

> There might be circumstances where you want to create or update resources and actions on the fly; an example of this might be a multi-tenant platform which provides tenants the ability to manage their own policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There might be circumstances where you want to create or update resources and actions on the fly; an example of this might be a multi-tenant platform that provides tenants the ability to manage their own policies.
```
